android-components/components/service/pocket/README.md, before:

# [Android Components](../../../README.md) > Service > Pocket

A library for easily getting Pocket recommendations that transparently handles downloading, caching and periodically refreshing Pocket data.

Currently this supports:

- Pocket recommended stories.
- Pocket sponsored stories.

## Usage
1. For Pocket recommended stories:
    - Use `PocketStoriesService#startPeriodicStoriesRefresh` and `PocketStoriesService#stopPeriodicStoriesRefresh`
      as high up in the client app as possible (preferably in the Application object or in a single Activity) to ensure the
      background story refresh functionality works for the entirety of the app lifetime.
    - Use `PocketStoriesService.getStories` to get the current list of Pocket recommended stories.

2. For Pocket sponsored stories:
    - Use `PocketStoriesService#startPeriodicSponsoredStoriesRefresh` and `PocketStoriesService#stopPeriodicSponsoredStoriesRefresh`
      as high up in the client app as possible (preferably in the Application object or in a single Activity) to ensure the
      background story refresh functionality works for the entirety of the app lifetime.
    - Use `PocketStoriesService.getSponsoredStories` to get the current list of Pocket recommended stories.
    - Use `PocketStoriesService.deleteProfile` to delete all server stored information about the device to which sponsored stories were previously downloaded. This may include data like network ip and application tokens.

### Setting up the dependency

Use Gradle to download the library from [maven.mozilla.org](https://maven.mozilla.org/) ([Setup repository](../../../README.md#maven-repository)):

```Groovy
implementation "org.mozilla.components:service-pocket:{latest-version}"
```

## License

    This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
    License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
    file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/

Commit message:

[components] For https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/android-components/issues/12184 - Add support for pacing and rotating sponsored Pocket stories
Stories can be paced and rotated based on the properties received in the
endpoint response.

Since rotating involves a limit of impressions in a certain period I've added
a new table for keeping only this timestamps while the effective limits will be
held in the sponsored stories table.

With very little time between this and the previous patch which added support
for sponsored stories I've skipped created a new database version and sticked
to using version 2 again to ensure a smoother migration when this feature gets
to the users.

Possibly because of the foreignKey addition the migration could not be tested
in the JVM (because of sqlite exceptions coming from robolectric) and so I
switched testing this to a real device.

android-components/components/service/pocket/README.md, after:

# [Android Components](../../../README.md) > Service > Pocket

A library for easily getting Pocket recommendations that transparently handles downloading, caching and periodically refreshing Pocket data.

Currently this supports:

- Pocket recommended stories.
- Pocket sponsored stories.

## Usage
1. For Pocket recommended stories:
   - Use `PocketStoriesService#startPeriodicStoriesRefresh` and `PocketStoriesService#stopPeriodicStoriesRefresh`
     as high up in the client app as possible (preferably in the Application object or in a single Activity) to ensure the
     background story refresh functionality works for the entirety of the app lifetime.
   - Use `PocketStoriesService.getStories` to get the current list of Pocket recommended stories.

2. For Pocket sponsored stories:
   - Use `PocketStoriesService#startPeriodicSponsoredStoriesRefresh` and `PocketStoriesService#stopPeriodicSponsoredStoriesRefresh`
     as high up in the client app as possible (preferably in the Application object or in a single Activity) to ensure the
     background story refresh functionality works for the entirety of the app lifetime.
   - Use `PocketStoriesService.getSponsoredStories` to get the current list of Pocket recommended stories.
   - Use `PocketStoriesService,recordStoriesImpressions` to try and persist that a list of sponsored stories were shown to the user. (Safe to call even if those stories are not persisted).
   - Use `PocketStoriesService.deleteProfile` to delete all server stored information about the device to which sponsored stories were previously downloaded. This may include data like network ip and application tokens.

   ##### Pacing and rotating:
   A new `PocketSponsoredStoryCaps` is available in the response from `PocketStoriesService.getSponsoredStories` which allows checking `currentImpressions`, `lifetimeCount`, `flightCount`, `flightPeriod` based on which the client can decide which stories to show.
   All this is based on clients calling `PocketStoriesService,recordStoriesImpressions` to record new impressions in between application restarts.




### Setting up the dependency

Use Gradle to download the library from [maven.mozilla.org](https://maven.mozilla.org/) ([Setup repository](../../../README.md#maven-repository)):

```Groovy
implementation "org.mozilla.components:service-pocket:{latest-version}"
```

## License

    This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
    License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
    file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/
